#summary FileNode Wrapper

= Introduction =

A !FileNode represents its state as a file.  Its updater is an executable command, such as a shell script.

= Details =

A !FileNode's updater is called in one of two ways, depending on whether the p:state was explicitly set in the pipeline definition.  

If p:state *was* set, the updater is called as follows:
  _updaterCmd_ _stateFile_ _inputFiles..._

If p:state was *not* set, the updater is called as follows, writing its new state to stdout:
  _updaterCmd_ _inputFiles..._ > _stateFile_

where:
 * *_updaterCmd_* is the command specified by p:updater, or defaults to the name of the updater, possibly with a recognized file extension added.
 * *_inputFiles..._* are files representing the states of the nodes inputs (if any).
 * *_stateFile_* is the file that represents this node's state.

The first form (used when p:state is explicitly specified) allows the _updaterCmd_ to dynamically decide whether to modify its _stateFile_.  The second form requires _updaterCmd_ to write a new state to stdout every time it is invoked.

= Environment Variables =

Before the _updaterCmd_ is invoked, the following environment variables are set:
 * *$THIS_URI* is set to the current node's URI.
 * *$QUERY_STRING* is set to the query string of this node's latest GET request, as received from one of the node's downstream output nodes or an anonymous requester.
 * *$QUERY_STRINGS* is set to the space-separated list of $QUERY_STRINGs received from all of the node's downstream nodes.  *TODO: Does it include the $QUERY_STRING of an anonymous requester?*